
{217} NOTES AND QUERIES:

A MEDIUM OF INTER-COMMUNICATION FOR LITERARY MEN, ARTISTS, ANTIQUARIES,
GENEALOGISTS, ETC.

       *       *       *       *       *


"When found, make a note of."--CAPTAIN CUTTLE.

       *       *       *       *       *


No. 73.]
SATURDAY, MARCH 22. 1851.
[Price Threepence. Stamped Edition 4d.

       *       *       *       *       *


CONTENTS.

                                                             Page
  Suggestions for preserving a Record of Existing Monuments   217

  NOTES:--
  On the Word "Rack" in Shakspeare's Tempest, by
  Samuel Hickson                                              218
  Ancient inedited Poems, No. III., by K. R. H. Mackenzie     219
  Folk-Lore:--Moths called Souls--Holy Water for
  Hooping Cough--Daffy Down Dilly                             220
  Dr. Maitland's Illustrations and Enquiries relating to
  Mesmerism                                                   220
  Minor Notes:--Original Warrant--Gloves--Prince
  Rupert--Inscription on a Gun--Richard III.--Lines
  by Pope--Origin of St. Andrew's Cross in relation to
  Scotland--Snail-eating                                      220

  QUERIES:--
  Henry Smith, by T. M'Calmont                                222
  Minor Queries:--Owen Glendower--Meaning of Gig-Hill--
  Sir John Vaughan--Quebecca and his Epitaph--A
  Monumental Inscription--Sir Thomas Herbert's
  Memoirs of Charles I.--Comets--Natural Daughter
  of James II.--Going the Whole Hog--Innocent
  Convicts--The San Grail--Meaning of "Slums"--
  Bartolus' "Learned Man Defended and Reformed"--
  Odour from the Rainbow--Tradesmen's Signs                   222
  MINOR QUERIES ANSWERED:--Supporters borne by
  Commoners--Answer to Fisher's Relation--"Drink
  up Eisell"                                                  224

  REPLIES:--
  Scandal against Queen Elizabeth                             225
  The Mistletoe on the Oak, by James Buckman, &c.             226
  Universality of the Maxim, "Lavor come se tu," &c.,
  by S. W. Singer                                             226
  Replies to Minor Queries:--Tennyson's In Memoriam--
  Bishop Hooper's Godly Confession, &c.--Machell's
  MS. Collections for Westmoreland and Cumberland--
  Oration against Demosthenes--Borrow's Danish
  Ballads--Head of the Saviour--Lady Bingham--
  Shakespeare's Use of Captious--Tanthony--Lama
  Beads--"Language given to Men," &c.--Daresbury,
  the White Chapel of England--Holland Land--Passage
  in the Tempest--Damasked Linen--Straw Necklaces--
  Library of the Church of Westminster, &c.                   227

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c.                      230
  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                                231
  Notices to Correspondents                                   231
  Advertisements                                              231

       *       *       *       *       *


SUGGESTIONS FOR PRESERVING A RECORD OF EXISTING MONUMENTS.

When, in the opening Number of the present Volume (p. 14), we called the
attention of our readers to the _Monumentarium of Exeter Cathedral_, we
expressed a hope that the good services which Mr. Hewett had thereby
rendered to all genealogical, antiquarian, and historical inquirers would
be so obvious as to lead a number of labourers into the same useful field.
That hope bids fair to be fully realised. In Vol. iii., p. 116., we printed
a letter from MR. PEACOCK, announcing his intention of copying the
inscriptions in the churches and churchyards of the Hundred of Manley; and
we this week present our readers with three fresh communications upon the
subject.

We give precedence to MISS BOCKETT'S, inasmuch as it involves no general
proposal upon the subject, but is merely expressive of that lady's
willingness, in which we have no doubt she will be followed by many of her
countrywomen to help forward the good work.

    In your Number for Feb. 15th, I find MR. EDWARD PEACOCK, Jun., of
    Bottesford Moors, Messingham, Kirton Lindsey, wishes to collect church
    memorials for work he intends to publish. If he would like the accounts
    of monuments in the immediate neighbourhood of Reading, as far as I am
    able it would give me pleasure to send some to him.

    JULIA R. BOCKETT.

    Southcote Lodge, near Reading.

The second makes us acquainted with a plan for the publication of a
_Monumenta Anglicana_ by MR. DUNKIN,--a plan which would have our hearty
concurrence and recommendation, if it were at all practicable; but which,
it will be seen at a glance, must fail from its very vastness. If the
_Monumentarium of Exeter_ contains the material for half a moderate-sized
octavo volume, in what number of volumes does MR. DUNKIN propose to
complete his collection--even if a want of purchasers of the early volumes
did not nip in the bud his praiseworthy and well-intentioned scheme?

    Your correspondent MR. EDW. PEACOCK, Jun, may be interested in knowing
    that a work has some time been projected by my friend Mr. Alfred John
    Dunkin of Dartford (whose industry and antiquarian learning render him
    well fitted for the task), under the title of _Monumenta Anglicana_,
    and which is intended to be a medium for preserving the inscriptions in
    every church in the kingdom. There can be no doubt of the high value
    and utility of such a work, especially if accompanied by a
    well-arranged index of names; and I have no doubt MR. PEACOCK, and
    indeed many others of your valued correspondents, will be induced to
    {218} assist in the good cause, by sending memoranda of inscriptions to
    Mr. Dunkin.

    L. J.

    Plymouth.

The following letter from the REV. E. S. TAYLOR proposes a Society for the
purpose:--

    I for one shall be happy to co-operate with MR. PEACOCK in this useful
    work; and I trust that, through the valuable medium of "NOTES AND
    QUERIES," many will be induced to offer their assistance. Could not a
    Society be formed for the purpose, so that mutual correspondence might
    take place?

    E. S. TAYLOR.

    Martham, Norfolk.

We doubt the necessity, and indeed the advisability, of the formation of
any such Society.

MR. PEACOCK (_ant√®_., p. 117.) has already wisely suggested, that "in time
a copy of every inscription in every church in England might be ready for
reference in our National Library," and we have as little doubt that the
MS. department of the British Museum is the proper place of deposit for
such records, as that the trustees would willingly accept the charge of
them on the recommendation of their present able and active Keeper of the
Manuscripts. What he, and what the trustees would require, would be some
security that the documents were what they professed to be; and this might
very properly be accomplished through the agency of such a Society as MR.
TAYLOR proposes, if there did not already exist a Society upon whom such a
duty might very safely be devolved:--and have we not, in the greater energy
which that Society has lately displayed, evidence that it would undertake a
duty for which it seems pre-eminently fitted? We allude to the Society of
Antiquaries. The anxiety of Lord Mahon, its president, to promote the
efficiency of that Society, has recently been made evident in many ways;
and we cannot doubt that he would sanction the formation of a sub-committee
for the purpose of assisting in collecting and preserving a record of all
existing monuments, or that he would find a lack of able men to serve on
such a committee, when he numbers among the official or active Fellows of
the Society gentlemen so peculiarly fitted to carry out this important
national object, as Mr. Hunter, Sir Charles Young, Mr. J. Payne Collier,
and Mr. Bruce.

       *       *       *       *       *


Notes.

ON THE WORD "RACK" IN SHAKSPEARE'S TEMPEST.

As another illustration of the careless or superficial manner in which the
meaning of Shakspeare has been sought, allow me to call attention to the
celebrated passage in the _Tempest_ in which the word "rack" occurs. The
passage really presents no difficulty; and the meaning of the word, as it
appears to me, might as well be settled at once and for ever. I make this
assertion, not dogmatically, but with the view of testing the correctness
of my opinion, that this is not at all a question of etymology, but
entirely one of construction. The passage reads as follows:--

                 "These, our actors,
  As I foretold you, were all spirits, and
  Are melted into air, into thin air:
  And, like the baseless fabrick of this vision,
  The cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces,
  The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
  Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve;
  And, like this insubstantial pageant, faded,
  Leave not a rack behind."--_Tempest_, Act IV. Sc. 1.

As I have expressed my opinion that this is not at all a question of
etymology, I shall not say more in reference to this view of the case than
that "rack," spelt as in Shakspeare, is a word in popular and every-day use
in the phrase "rack and ruin;" that we have it in the term "rack off," as
applied to wine, meaning _to take from the rack_, or, in other words, "to
leave a rack" or _refuse_ "behind," racked wine being wine drawn from the
lees; and that it is, I believe, still in use in parts of England, meaning
_remains_ or _refuse_, as, in the low German, "der Wraek" means the same
thing. Misled, however, by an unusual mode of spelling, and unacquainted
with the literature of Shakspeare's age, certain of the commentators
suggested the readings of _track_ and _trace_; whereupon Horne Tooke
remarks:--

    "The ignorance and presumption of his commentators have shamefully
    disfigured Shakspeare's text. The first folio, notwithstanding some few
    palpable misprints, requires none of their alterations. Had they
    understood English as well as he did, they would not have quarrelled
    with his language."--_Diversions of Purley_, p. 595.

He proceeds to show that _rack_ "is merely the past tense, and therefore
past participle, [reac] or [rec], of the Anglo-Saxon verb Recan,
_exhalare_, to _reek_;" and although the advocates of its being a
particular description of light cloud refer to him as an authority for
their reading, he treats it throughout generally as "a vapour, a steam, or
an exhalation." But Horne Tooke, in his zeal as an etymologist, forgot
altogether to attend to the construction of the passage. What is it that
shall "leave not a rack behind?" A rack of what? Not of the baseless fabric
of this vision, like which the "cloud-capp'd towers shall dissolve,"--not
of this insubstantial pageant, like which they shall have faded,--but of
"the cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces, the solemn temples, the
great globe itself." There is in fact a double comparison; but the
construction and the meaning are perfectly clear, and no word will suit the
passage but one that shall express a result common {219} to the different
objects enumerated. A cloud may be a fit object for comparison, but it is
utterly inconsequential; while the sense required can only be expressed by
a general term, such as _remains_, a _vestige_, or a _trace_.

I beg now to transcribe a note Of Mr. Collier's on this passage:--

    "'Rack' is vapour, from _reck_, as Horne Tooke showed; and the light
    clouds on the face of heaven are the 'rack,' or vapour from the earth.
    The word 'rack' was often used in this way."--Coll. _Shaksp._, vol. i.
    p. 70.

Mr. Knight appears to incline to the same view; and regarding these as the
two latest authorities, and finding in neither of them any reference to the
question of construction, I naturally concluded that the point had been
overlooked by the commentators. On reference, however, I found to my
surprise, that Malone, for the very same reasons, had come to the same
conclusion. Had Malone's argument been briefly stated by the "two latest
and best editors," I should, of course, have had no occasion to trouble you
with this note: and this instance, it appears to me, furnishes additional
reasons for enforcing the principle for which I am contending; the neglect
of it affecting, in however slight a degree, the sense or correctness of so
important and frequently quoted a passage. For my own part, I should have
thought that the commonest faith in Shakspeare would have protected any
editor, whose avowed object it was to restore the text, from preferring in
this instance, to the plain common sense of Malone, the more showy
authority of Horne Tooke.

In my last paper I wrote,--"So far as quantity is concerned, to eat a
crocodile would be _no_ more than to eat an ox." You have omitted the
negative.

SAMUEL HICKSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT INEDITED POEMS, NO. III.

In my last communication on this subject, I forgot to remark on the strange
title given to the monody on Mr. Browne. May I ask if the name of "Chorus"
was thus indiscriminately applied at the time when the poem was composed?

The next poem that I shall give is copied from _Harleian MSS._, 367., art.
60., fol. 158. It is entitled--

     "A VERTUOUS WOMAN.

 "When painted vice fils upp the rimes
  Of these our last depraued times:
  And soe much lust by wanton layes
  Dispers√©d is; that beautie strayes
  Into darke corners wheere vnseen,                              5
  Too many sadd berefts haue been.
  Aduance my muse to blaze[1] that face
  Wheere beautie sits enthroand in grace.
  The eye though bright, and quicke to moue,
  Daignes not a cast to wanton loue.                            10
  A comely ffront not husht in hayre,
  Nor face be-patcht to make it fayre.
  The lipps and cheekes though seemely redd,
  Doe blush afresh if by them fedd.
  Some wanton youthes doe gaze too much                         15
  Though naked breasts are hidd from touch.
  When due salutes are past, they shunn
  A seconde kisse: yea, half vndone
  Shee thinkes herselfe, when wantons praise
  Her hande or face with such loose phraise                     20
  As they haue learnt at acts and scenes,
  Noe hand in hand with them shee meenes,
  Shall giue them boldnes to embalme,
  Ther filthie fist in her chast palme.
  Her pretious honners overlookes,                              25
  At her retires the best of bookes.
  Whatsoeuer else shee doth forget
  Noe busines shall her prayers[2] let.
  Those that bee good, shee prizes most,
  Noe time with them shee counteth lost.                        30
  Her chast delights, her mind, aduance
  Above Lot-games or mix√©d dance.
  Shee cares not for an enterlude,
  Or idly will one day conclude.
  The looser toungs that filth disclose                         35
  Are graueolencie to her nose.
  But when a vertuous man shall court
  Her virgin thoughts in nuptiall sort:
  Her faire depor[t]ment, neyther coy
  Nor yet too forward, fits his ioy,                            40
  And giues his kisses leaue to seale
  On her fayre hand his faythfull zeale.
  Blest is his conquest in her loue,
  With her alone death cann remoue.
  And if before shee did adorne                                 45
  Her parents' howse, the cheerefull morne
  Reioyceth now at this blest payre,
  To see a wife soe chast soe fayre.
  They happy liue; and know noe smart
  Of base suspects or iealous heart;                            50
  And if the publike bredd noe feare,
  Nor sadd alarms did fill ther care,
  From goodnes flowes ther ioy soe cleere
  As grace beginnes ther heauen heere."

The poem has no subscription, nor, from the appearance of the paper, should
I say there had been one. The comparatively modern phraseology points to a
late era. The poem is bound up with a quantity of John Stowe's papers, and
I think is in his handwriting, upon comparing it with other papers known to
be his in the same book. As it is my chief object (next to contributing to
the preservation and publication of these ancient ballads) to obtain data
regarding the anonymous productions of the earlier days of England's
literature, any remarks, allow me to say, that other contributors will
favour our {220} medium of intercommunication with, will be much
appreciated by

KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE.

    [Our correspondent is certainly mistaken in supposing this poem to be
    in Stowe's handwriting. We have the best possible authority for
    assuring him that it is not.]

[Footnote 1: _Blason_, describe.]

[Footnote 2: We have here an instance of the use of the word _prayers_ as a
dissyllable.]

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

_Moths called Souls._--While I am upon this subject, I may as well mention
that in Yorkshire the country-people used in my youth, and perhaps do
still, call night-flying white moths, especially the _Hepialus humuli_,
which feeds, while in the grub state, on the roots of docks and other
coarse plants, "souls." Have we not in all this a remnant of "Psyche?"

F. S.

    [This latter paragraph furnishes a remarkable coincidence with the
    tradition from the neighbourhood of Truro (recorded by MR. THOMS in his
    Folk lore of Shakspeare, _Athen√¶um_ (No. 1041.) Oct. 9. 1847) which
    gives the name of _Piskeys_ both to the _fairies_ and to _moths_, which
    are believed by many to be _departed souls_.]

_Holy Water for the Hooping Cough_ (vol. iii., p. 179.).--In one of the
principal towns of Yorkshire, half a century ago, it was the practice for
persons in a respectable class of life to take their children, when
afflicted with the hooping cough, to a neighbouring convent, where the
priest allowed them to drink a small quantity of holy water out of a silver
chalice, which the little sufferers were strictly forbidden to touch. By
Protestant, as well as Roman Catholic parents, this was regarded as a
remedy. Is not the superstition analogous to that noticed by MR. WAY?

EBORACOMB.

_Daffy Down Dilly._--At this season, when the early spring flowers are
showing themselves, we hear the village children repeating these lines:--

 "Daff a down dill has now come to town,
  In a yellow petticoat and a green gown."

Does not this nursery rhyme throw light upon the character of the royal
visitor alluded to in the snail charm recorded by F. J. H. (p. 179.)?

EBORACOMB.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. MAITLAND'S ILLUSTRATIONS AND ENQUIRIES RELATING TO MESMERISM.

I know more than one person who would second the request that I am about to
make through "NOTES AND QUERIES" to DR. MAITLAND, that he would publish the
remaining parts of his _Illustrations and Enquiries relating to Mesmerism_:
he would do so, I know, at once, if he thought that anybody would benefit
by them; and I can bear witness to Part I. as having been already of some
use. It is high time that Christians should be decided as to whether or no
they may meddle with the fearful power whose existence is is impossible to
ridicule any longer. DR. MAITLAND has suggested the true course of thought
upon the subject, and promised to lead us along it; but it is impossible at
present to use anything that he has said, on account of its incompleteness.
In tracing the subject through history, DR. MAITLAND would no doubt mention
the "[Greek: Omphalopsuchoi], or Umbilicani," of the fourteenth century,
whose practices make a page (609.) of Waddington's _History of the Church_
read like a sketch of Middle-age Mesmerism, contemptuously given. Also, in
Washington Irving's _Life of Mahomet_, a belief somewhat similar to theirs
is stated to have been preached in the seventh century (_Bohn's Reprint in
Shilling Series_, p. 191.) by a certain Mose√Ølma, a false prophet.

I may add that Miss Martineau's new book, _Letters of the Development of
Man's Nature, by Atkinson and Martineau_, which cannot be called sceptical,
for its unbelief is unhesitating, is the immediate cause of my writing
to-day.

A. L. R.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Notes.

_Original Warrant._--The following warrant from the original in the
Surrenden collection may interest some of your correspondents, as bearing
upon more than one Query that has appeared in your columns:--

    "Forasmuch as S^r John Payton, Knight, Lieutenant of the Tower, hath
    heretofore receaved a warrant from the Lls. of the counsell, by her
    Ma^{ts} commandment, for the removinge of Wright the Preist out of the
    Tower, to Framingham Castle, and for that, since then, it is thought
    more convenient, that he be removed to the Clincke--Theise therefore
    shalbe to require now (sic) to enlarge him of his imprisonment in the
    Tower, and to deliver him prisoner into the hands of the L. Bishop of
    London, to be committed by his Lp. to the Clincke, because it is for
    her M^{ts} speciall service,--for doinge whereof, this shalbe your
    warrant.

     "From the court at
         "Oatlands this 29
             "of September, 1602.
                 "RO. CECYLL.

       "To Mr. Anthony Deeringe,
     "Deputy Lieutenant of the Tower of London."



    "2. October, 1602.

    "I have receyed Mr. Wryght from Mr. Derynge, Deputy Lieutenant, and
    have comitted him to the Clincke according the direction from Mr.
    Secretary above expressed.

    "RIC. LONDON."

L. B. L.

_Gloves.--Prince Rupert._--In your First Vol., pp. 72. 405., and in other
places in Vol. ii., there are notices with respect to the presentation of
_gloves_. If what is contained in the following {221} paper be not
generally known, it may claim an interest with some of your readers:--

    "At the Court of Whitehall, the 23rd of October, 1678. Present

      The Kings most excellent Majesty,
        His Highness _Prince Rupert_,
        Lord Archbp. of Canterbury,"
      [with twelve others, who are named.]

    "Whereas formerly it hath been a custom upon the Consecra[~c]on of all
    [~B]ps for them to make presents of Gloves to all Persons that came to
    the Consecra[~c]on Dinners, and others, w^{ch} amounted to a great
    Su[~m] of Money, and was an unnecessary burden to them, His Ma^{tie}
    this day, taking the same into his considera[~c]on, was thereupon
    pleas'd to order in Council, that for the future there shall be no such
    distribu[~c]on of Gloves; but that in lieu thereof each Lord B[~p]
    before his Consecra[~c]on shall hereafter pay the Su[~m] of 50l. to be
    employ'd towards the Rebuilding of the Cathedral Church of St. Paul.
    And it was further ordered, that his Grace the Lord Archb[~p] of
    Canterbury do not proceed to consecrate any B[~p] before he hath paid
    the s[~d] Su[~m] of 50l. for the use aforesaid, and produced a Receipt
    for the same from the Treasurer of the Money for Rebuilding the said
    Church for the time being, w^{ch} as it is a pious work, so will it be
    some ease to the respective B[~p]s, in regard the Expense of Gloves did
    usually farr exceed that Sum.

    "PHI. LLOYD."

    _Tanner's MSS._ vol. 282. 112. al. 74.

One of your correspondents, I think, some time back asked for notices of
_Prince Rupert_ posterior to the Restoration. Besides the mention made of
him in this paper, _Echard_ speaks of his having the command of one
squadron of the English fleet in the Dutch war.

J. SANSOM.

_Inscription on a Gun_ (Vol. iii., p. 181.).--Your notes on "the Potter's
and Shepherd's Keepsakes" remind me of an old gun, often handled by me in
my youth, on the stock of which the following tetrastick was _en-nailed_:--

 "Of all the sports as is,
    I fancies most a gun;
  And, after my decease,
    I leaves this to my son."

Whether this testamentary disposition ever passed through Doctors' Commons,
I know not.

C. W. B.

_Richard III._ (Vol. iii., pp. 206-7.).--The statement by MR. HARRISON,
that Richard was not a "hunchback," is curiously "backed" by an ingenious
conjecture of that very remarkable man, Doctor John Wallis of Oxford, in
his _Grammatica Lingu√¶ Anglican√¶_, first published in 1653. The passage
occurs in the 2d section of chapter 14, "De Etymologia." Wallis is treating
of the words _crook_, _crouch_, _cross_, &c., and says:

    "Hinc item _croisado_ de militibus dicebatur ad bellum (quod vocant)
    sanctum conscriptis (pro recuperanda terra sancta) qui √† tergo
    gestabant formam Crucis; et _Richardus_ olim Rex Angli√¶ dicebatur
    _crouch-backed_, non quod dorso fucrit incurvato, sed quod √† tergo
    gestare gestiebat formam Crucis."

G. F. G.

Edinburgh.

_Lines by Pope._--On the back of a letter in my possession, written by the
poet Gray, are the following lines in the handwriting of his friend
Mason:--

             "_By Mr. Pope._

     "Tom Wood of Chiswick, deep divine,
      To Painter Kent gave all this coin.
     'Tis the first coin, I'm bold to say,
      That ever Churchman gave to Lay."

    "Wrote in Evelyn's book of coins given by Mr. Wood to Kent: he had
    objected against the word _pio_ in Mr. Pope's father's epitaph."

If these lines are not already in print, perhaps you will insert them
amongst your "NOTES" as a contribution from

ROBERT HOTCHKIN.

Thimbleby Rectory, March 13. 1851.

_Origin of St. Andrew's Cross in connexion with Scotland._--John Lesley,
bishop of Ross, reports, that in the night before the battle between
Athelstan, king of England, and Hungus, king of the Picts, a bright cross,
like that whereon St. Andrew suffered, appeared to Hungus, who, having
obtained the victory, ever after bore that figure. This happened in 819.
Vide _Gent. Mag._ for Nov. 1732.

E. S. T.

_Snail-eating_ (Vol. iii., p. 207.).--Your correspondent C. W. B. does not
seem to be aware that "a ragout of boror (snails)" is a regular dish with
English _gypsies_. Vide Borrow's _Zincali_, part i. c. v.

He has clearly not read Mr. Borrow's remarks on the subject:

    "Know then, O Gentile, whether thou be from the land of Gorgios
    (England), or the Busn√© (Spain), that the very gypsies, who consider a
    ragout of snails a delicious dish, will not touch an eel because it
    bears a resemblance to a snake; and that those who will feast on a
    roasted hedgehog could be induced by no money to taste a squirrel!"

Having tasted of roasted hotchiwitchu (hedgehog) myself among the "gentle
Rommanys," I can bear witness to its delicate fatness; and though a ragout
of snails was never offered for my acceptance, I do not think that those
who consider (as most "Gorgios" do) stewed eels a delicacy ought to be too
sever on "Limacotrophists!"

HERMES.

_Snail-eating._--Perhaps you will permit me to remark, in reference to the
communication of C. W. B., that snails are taken medicinally occasionally,
and are supposed to be extremely strengthening. I have known them eagerly
sought after for the meal of a consumptive patient. As a matter of taste,
too, they are by {222} some considered quite epicurean. A gentleman whom I
used to know, was in the constant habit as he passed through the fields, of
picking up the white slugs that lay in his way, and swallowing them with
more relish than he would have done had they been oysters.

That snails make a no inconsiderable item in the bill of fare of gypsies,
and other wanderers, I proved while at Oxford, some time ago; for passing
up Shotover Hill, in the parish of Headington, I unexpectedly came upon a
camp of gypsies who were seated round a wood fire enjoying their Sunday's
dinner: this consisted of a considerable number of large snails roasted on
the embers, and potatoes similarly cooked. On inquiry, I was told by those
who were enjoying their repast, that they were extremely good, and were
much liked by people of their class, who made a constant practice of eating
them. I need hardly say that I received a most hospitable invitation to
join in the feast, which I certainly declined.

L. J.

       *       *       *       *       *


Queries.

HENRY SMITH.

In Marsden's _History of the Early Puritans_ (a work recently published,
which will well repay perusal) there occurs (pp. 178, 179.) the following
notice of Henry Smith:--

    "Henry Smith was a person of good family, and well connected; but
    having some scruples, he declined preferment, and aspired to nothing
    higher than the weekly Lectureship of St. Clement Danes. On a complaint
    made by Bishop Aylmer, Whitgift suspended him, and silenced for a while
    probably the most eloquent preacher in Europe. His contemporaries named
    him the Chrysostom of England. His church was crowded to excess; and
    amongst his hearers, persons of the highest rank, and those of the most
    cultivated and fastidious judgment, were content to stand in the throng
    of citizens. His sermons and treatises were soon to be found in the
    hands of every person of taste and piety: they passed through
    numberless editions. Some of them were carried abroad, and translated
    into Latin. They were still admired and read at the close of nearly a
    century, when Fuller collected and republished them. Probably the prose
    writing of this, the richest period of genuine English literature,
    contains nothing finer than some of his sermons. They are free, to an
    astonishing degree, from the besetting vices of his age--vulgarity, and
    quaintness, and affected learning; and he was one of the first English
    preachers who, without submitting to the trammels of a pedantic logic,
    conveyed in language nervous, pure, and beautiful, the most convincing
    arguments in the most lucid order, and made them the ground-work of
    fervent and impassioned addresses to the conscience."

Would it not be desirable, as well in a literary as a theological point of
view, that any extant sermons of so renowned a divine should be made
accessible to general readers? At present they are too rare and expensive
to be largely useful. A brief _Narrative of the Life and Death of Mr. Henry
Smith_ (as it is for substance related by Mr. Thomas Fuller in his _Church
History_), which is prefixed to an old edition (1643) of his sermons in my
possession, concludes in these words:--

    "The wonder of this excellent man's worth is increased by the
    consideration of his tender age, he dying very young (of a consumption
    as it is conceived) above fifty years since, about Anno 1600."

THOS. M^CCALMONT.

Highfield, Southampton.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Queries.

_Owen Glendower._--Some of your Cambrian correspondents might, through your
columns, supply a curious and interesting desideratum in historical
genealogy, by contributing a pedigree, authenticated as far as practicable
by dates and authorities, and including collaterals, of OWEN GLENDOWER,
from his ancestor Griffith Maelor, Lord of Bromfield, son of Madoc, last
Prince of Powys, to the extinction of Owen's male line.

All Cambrian authorities are, I believe, agreed in attributing to Owen the
lineal male representation of the sovereigns of Powys; but I am not aware
that there is any printed pedigree establishing in detail, on authentic
date, his descent, and that of the collaterals of his line; while
uncertainty would seem to exist as to one of the links in the chain of
deduction, as to the fate of his sons and their descendants, if any, as
well as to the marriages and representatives of more than one of his
daughters.

I have in vain looked for the particulars I have indicated in Yorke's
_Royal Tribes of Wales_; in the _Welsh Heraldic Visitation Pedigrees_,
lately published by the Welsh MSS. Society, under the learned editorship of
the late Sir Samuel Meyrick; and in the valuable contributions to the
genealogy of the Principality to be found in the _Landed Gentry_ and the
_Peerage and Baronetage_ of Mr. Burke,--a pedigree, in other respects
admirable, in the _Landed Gentry_ of a branch of the dynasty of Powys,
omitting the intermediate descents in question.

S. M.

_Meaning of Gig-Hill._--Can any of your readers favour me with an
explanation of the following matter in local topography? There are two
places in the neighbourhood of Kingston-on-Thames distinguished by the name
of _Gig-Hill_[3], although there is no indication of anything in the land
to warrant the name.

{223}

Are there any instances to be met with where the place of punishment by the
stocks or pillory in olden times, was known by that name?

There was a king of Brittany who resigned his crown, and obtained the
honours of canonisation as Saint Giguel, in the seventh century. St. Giles,
who died about the sixth century, might, perhaps, have had some connexion
with those who are traditionally believed to have been punished on the
spot; that is, if we judge by his clients, who locate themselves under the
sanctity of his name as a "Guild" or fraternity in London.

There is, however, a curious use by Shakspeare of the word gig. It occurs
in _Love's Labour's Lost_, Act V. Sc. I.:

Holofernes says,

    "What is the figure?"

    _Moth._ Horns.

    _Holofernes._ Thou disputest like an infant. Go, whip thy gig."

I submit this matter, as local names have often their origin in religious
associations or in proverbial philosophy.

It has been suggested that _giggle_, as a mark of the derision to which the
culprit was exposed, might so become corrupted.

If the term be connected with the punishment, it would be, doubtless, one
of general application. The smallest contribution will be thankfully
received.

K.

[Footnote 3: [One of these places, namely, that on the road from Kingston
to Ditton, is, we believe, known as Gig's Hill.--ED.]]

_Sir John Vaughan._--In the patent under which the barony of Hamilton of
Hackallen, in the county of Meath, was granted on the 20th of October, in
the second year of the reign of George I., to Gustavus Hamilton, he is
described as son of Sir Frederick Hamilton, Knt., by Sidney, daughter and
heiress of Sir John Vaughan, Knt.; and that the said Dame Sidney Hamilton
was descended from an honourable line of ancestors, one of whom, Sir Will
Sidney, was Chamberlain to Henry II., another of the same name Comptroller
of the Household to Henry VIII., &c., &c.

Can any of your genealogical friends inform me who the above-named Sir John
Vaughan married, and in what way she was connected with the Sidneys of
Penshurst, as the pedigree given by Collins contains no mention of any such
marriage?

The arms of Sir John Vaughan, which appear quartered with those of Hamilton
and Arran in the margin of the grant, are,--Argent, a chevron sable between
three infants' heads coupled at the shoulders, each entwined round the neck
with a snake, all proper, thereby intimating his descent from the Vaughans
of Porthaml Tr√™tower, &c., in the county of Brecon.

J. P. O.

_Quebecca and his Epitaph._--

    "Here lies the body of John Quebecca, precentor to my Lord the King.
    When his spirit shall enter the Kingdom of Heaven, the Almighty will
    say to the Angelic Choir, 'Silence, ye calves! and let me hear John
    Quebecca, precentor to my Lord the King.'"

Can any of your correspondents inform me who John Quebecca was, and where
the epitaph may be found?

E. HAILSTURE.

_A Monumental Inscription._--Near the chancel door of the parish-church of
Wath-upon-Dearne, in Yorkshire, is an upright slab inscribed to the memory
of William Burroughs. After stating that he was of Masbro', gentleman, and
that he died in the year 1722, the monument contains the two following
hexameters:--

 "Burgus in hoc tumulo nunc, Orthodoxus Itermus,
  Deposuit cineres, animam revocabit Olympus."

The meaning of all which is obvious, except of the words "Orthodoxus
Itermus:" and I should be glad to have this unscanning doggrel translated.
It has been conjectured that _Itermus_ must be derived from _iter_, and
hence that Burroughs may have been a _traveller_, or possibly _an orthodox
itinerant preacher_: surely there can be no punning reference to _a
journeyman_! The lines have been submitted, in vain, to some high literati
in Oxford.

A. G.

Ecclesfield.

_Sir Thomas Herbert's Memoirs of Charles I._ (Vol. iii., p. 157.).--My
friend, who is in possession of the original MS. of this work, is desirous
of ascertaining whether the volume published in 1702 be a complete and
exact copy of it. I will transcribe the commencing and concluding passages
of the MS., and shall be obliged if MR. BOLTON CORNEY will compare them
with the book in his possession, and tell me the result.

    "S^r,

    "By your's of the 22d of August last, I find you have receaved my
    former letters of the first and thirteenth of May, 1678; and seeing
    'tis your further desire," &c.

    "This briefe narrative shall conclude with the king's owne excellent
    expression: _Crowns and kingdoms are not so valuable as my honour and
    reputation--those must have a period with my life; but these survive to
    a glorious kind of immortality when I am dead and gone: a good name
    being the embalming of princes, and a sweet consecrating of them to an
    eternity of love and gratitude amongst posterity._"

The present owner of the MS. has an idea that an incorrect copy was
fraudulently obtained and published about 1813. Is there any foundation for
this supposition?

ALFRED GATTY.

Ecclesfield.

_Comets._--Where may a correct list of the several comets and eclipses,
visible in France or England, which appeared, or took place, between the
years 1066 and 1600, be obtained?

S. P. O. R.

{224}

_Natural Daughter of James II._--James II., in _Souverains du Monde_ (4
vols. 1722), is stated to have had a natural daughter, who in 1706 was
married to the Duke of Buckingham.

Can any of your readers inform me the name of this daughter, and of her
mother? Also the dates of her birth and death, and the name of her husband,
and of any children?

F. B. RELTON.

_Going the Whole Hog._--What is the origin of the expression "going the
whole hog?" Did it take its rise from Cowper's fable, _the Love of the
World reproved_, in which it is shown how "Mahometans eat up the hog?"

[Sigma].

_Innocent Convicts._--Can any of your readers furnish a tolerably complete
list of persons convicted and executed in England, for crimes of which it
afterwards appeared they were innocent?

[Sigma].

_The San Grail._--Can any one learned in ecclesiastical story say what are
the authorities for the story that King Arthur sent his knights through
many lands in quest of the _sacred vessel_ used by our Blessed Lord at His
"Last Supper," and explain why this chalice was called the "Holy Grail" or
"Grayle?" Tennyson has a short poem on the knightly search after it, called
"Sir Galahad." And in Spenser's _Faerie Queene_, book ii. cant. x. 53.,
allusion is made to the legend that "Joseph of Arimathy brought it to
Britain."

W. M. K.

_Meaning of "Slums."_--In Dr. Wiseman's _Appeal to the Reason and Good
Feeling of the English People_, we find the word "slums" made use of with
respect to the purlieus of Westminster Abbey. Warren, in a note of his
letter on "The Queen or the Pope?" asks "What are 'slums?' And where is the
word to be found explained? Is it Roman or Spanish? There is none such in
our language, at least used by gentlemen."

I would ask, may not the word be derived from _asylum_, seeing that the
precincts of abbeys, &c. used to be an asylum or place of refuge in ancient
times for robbers and murderers?

W. M. W.

Stokesley.

_Bartolus' "Learned Man Defended and Reformed."_--Can any one inform the
applicant in what modern author this excellent (and he believes rare) book
in his possession, translated from the Italian of Daniel Bartolus, G. J.,
by (Sir) Thomas Salusbury, 1660, is spoken of in terms of high approval?
The passage passed before him not long ago, but having _made no note_, he
is unable to recover it.--Query, Is it in Mr. Hallam's _Literary History_,
which he has not at hand?

U. Q.

_Odour from the Rainbow._--What English poet is it that embodies the idea
contained in the following passage of Bacon's _Sylva_? I had noted it on a
loose scrap of paper which I left in my copy of the _Sylva_, but have lost
it:--

    "It hath been observed by the Ancients, that when a Raine Bow seemeth
    to hang over or to touch, there breaketh forth a sweet smell. The cause
    is, for that this happenth but in certain matters which have in
    themselves some sweetnesse, which the Gentle Dew of the Raine Bow doth
    draw forth. And the like doe soft showers; for they also make the
    ground sweet. But none are so delicate as the Dew of the Raine Bow,
    where it falleth. It may be also that the water itself hath some
    sweetnesse: for the Raine Bow consisteth of a glomeration of small
    drops which cannot possibly fall but from the Aire that is very low.
    And therefore may hold giving sweetnesse of the herbs and flowers, as a
    distilled water," &c.--Bacon's _Sylva_, by Rawley, 6th ed. 1651, p.
    176.

JARLTZBERG.

_Tradesmen's Signs._--A CITIZEN wishes to be informed in what year or reign
the signs that used to hang over the tradesmen's shop-doors were abolished,
and whether it was accomplished by "act of parliament," or only "by the
authority of the Lord Mayor." Also, whether there is any law now in
existence that prevents the tradesmen putting the signs up again, if they
were so disposed.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Queries Answered.

_Supporters borne by Commoners._--Can any of your readers state why some
commoners bear supporters, and whether the representatives of Bannerets are
entitled to do so? I find in Burke's _Dictionary of Landed Gentry_, that
several gentlemen in England, Scotland, and Ireland continue to use them.
See Fulford, p. 452.; Wyse, p. 1661.; Hay-Newton, p. 552., &c. &c.

The late Mr. Portman, father of Lord Portman, used supporters, as do Sir W.
Carew, Bart., and some other baronets.

GUINEGATE.

    [Baronets are not entitled, _as such_, to bear supporters, which are
    the privilege of the peerage and the knights of the orders.

    There are many baronets who by virtue of especial warrants from the
    sovereign have, as acts of grace and favour, in consideration of
    services rendered to the state, received such grants; and in these
    instances they are limited to descend with the dignity only. No doubt
    there are some private families who assume and improperly bear
    supporters, but whose right to do so, even under their own statements
    as to origin and descent, has no legal foundation. "NOTES AND QUERIES"
    afford neither space nor place for the discussion of such questions, or
    for the remarks upon a correction of statements in the works quoted.]

_Answer to Fisher's Relation._--I have a work published at London by Adam
Islip, an. 1620, the title-page of which bears--

    "An Answere to Mr. Fisher's Relation of a Third {225} Conference
    betweene a certaine B. (as he stiles him) and himselfe. The conference
    was very private till Mr. Fisher spread certaine papers of it, which in
    many respects deserved an Answere. Which is here given by R. B.,
    Chapleine to the B. that was employed in the conference."

Pray, who _was_ the chaplain? I have heard he was the after-famous
Archbishop Laud.

I pray your assistance in the resolution of this Query.

J. M.

Liverpool.

    [This famous conference was the _third_ held by divines of the Church
    of England with the Jesuit Fisher (or Perse, as his name really was:
    see Dodd's _Church History_, vol. iii. p. 394.). The first two were
    conducted by Dr. Francis White: the latter by Bishop Laud, was held in
    May, 1622, and the account of it published by R. B. (_i.e._ Dr. Richard
    Baylie, who married Laud's niece, and was at that time his chaplain,
    and afterwards president of St. John's College, Oxford). Should J. M.
    possess a copy printed in 1620, it would be a literary curiosity. Laud
    says himself, that "his _Discourse_ was not printed till April, 1624."]

_Drink up Eisell_ (Vol. iii., p. 119.).--Here is a passage in _Troilus and
Cressida_, in which _drink up_ occurs (Act IV. Sc. 1.):

 "He, like a puling cuckold, would _drink up_
  The lees and _dregs_ of a flat-tamed piece."

The meaning is plainly here _avaler_, not _boire_.

Here is another, which does not perhaps illustrate the passage in _Hamlet_,
but resembles it (Act III. Sc. 2.):

    "When we vow to weep seas, live in fire, eat rocks, tame tigers,
    thinking it harder for our mistress to devise imposition enough, than
    for us to undergo any difficulty imposed."

C. B.

    [We are warned by several correspondents that this subject is becoming
    as bitter as wormwood to them. Before we dismiss it, however, we must
    record in our pages the opinion of one of the most distinguished
    commentators of the day, Mr. Hunter, who in his _New Illustrations_,
    vol. ii. p. 263., after quoting "potions of eysell" from the sonnet,
    says, "This shows it was not any river so called, but some desperate
    drink. The word occurs often in a sense in which _acetum_ is the best
    representative, associated with verjuice and vinegar. It is the term
    used for one ingredient of the bitter potion given to our Saviour on
    the cross, about the composition of which the commentators are greatly
    divided. Thus the eighth prayer of the Fifteen Oos in the _Salisbury
    Primer_, 1555, begins thus: 'O Blessed Jesu, sweetness of heart and
    ghostly pleasure of souls, I beseech thee for the bitterness of the
    _aysell_ and gall that thou tasted and suffered for me in thy passion,'
    &c."

    Since the above was written, we have received a communication from _An
    English Mother_ with the words and _music_ of the nursery song, showing
    that the music does not admit the expressions "eat _up_," and "drink
    _up_;" quoting from Haldorson's _Icelandic Lexicon_, Eysill, m.
    Haustrum en Ose allsa; and asking what if Shakspeare meant either a
    pump or a bucket? We have also received a Note from G. F. G. showing
    that _eisel_ in Dutch, German, and Anglo-Saxon, &c., meant _vinegar_,
    and stating, that during his residence in Florence in 1817, 1818, and
    1819, he had often met with wormwood wine at the table of the Italians,
    a weak white wine of Tuscany, in which wormwood had been infused, which
    was handed round by the servants immediately after the soup, and was
    believed to promote digestion.]

_Saxon Coin struck at Derby._--In the reign of Athelstan there was a royal
mint at Derby, and a coinage was struck, having on the obverse merely the
name of the town, Deoraby, and on the other side the legend "HEGENREDES MO
. ON . DEORABY." What is the meaning of this inscription?

R. C. P.

Derby, Feb. 26. 1851.

    [If HEGENREDES is rightly written, it is the name of a moneyer. MO . ON
    . DEORABY signifies _Monetarius_ (or Moneyer) _in Derby_. Coins are
    known with MEGENFRED and MEGNEREDTES, and our correspondent may have
    read his coin wrongly.]

       *       *       *       *       *


Replies.

SCANDAL AGAINST QUEEN ELIZABETH.

(Vol. ii., p. 393.; Vol. iii., pp. 11. 151. 197.)

The Marquis of Ormonde having been informed that certain statements, little
complimentary to the reputation of Queen Elizabeth, and equally
discreditable to the name of his ancestor, Thomas, Earl of Ormonde, have
appeared in "NOTES AND QUERIES," wherein it is stated "that the Ormonde
family possess documents which afford proof of this," begs to assure the
editor of the journal in question, that the Ormonde collection of papers,
&c. contains nothing that bears the slightest reference to the very
calumnious attack on the character of good Queen Bess.

Hampton Court, March 17. 1851.

    [If the Marquis of Ormonde will do us the favour to refer to our Number
    for the 8th March (No. 71.), he will find he has not been correctly
    informed with respect to the article to which his note relates. The
    family in which the papers are stated to exist, is clearly not that of
    the noble Marquis, but the family with which our correspondent "J. BS."
    states himself to be "connected;" and we hope J. BS. will, in justice
    both to himself and to Queen Elizabeth, adopt the course suggested in
    the following communication. We believe the warmest admirers of that
    great Queen cannot better vindicate her character than by making a
    strict inquiry into the grounds for the scandals, which, as has been
    already shown (_ant√®_, No. 62. p. 11.), were so industriously
    circulated against her.]

{226}

J. BS. says papers are "said to exist in the family which prove the
statement." As it is one of _scandal_ against a female, and that female a
great sovereign, should he not ascertain the fact of the existence of any
such paper, before supporting the scandal, and not leave a _tradition_ to
be supported by another tradition, when a little trouble might show whether
any papers exist, and when found what their value may be.

Q. G.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MISTLETOE ON THE OAK.

(Vol. ii., pp. 163. 214.; Vol. iii., p. 192.)

From having been a diligent searcher for the mistletoe on the oak, I may be
allowed to make a few remarks upon the question. Is it ever found now on
other trees? Now, it not only occurs abundantly on other trees, but it is
exceedingly rare on the oak. This may be gathered from the following list,
in which numbers have been used to express comparative frequency, as near
as my observations enable me to form a judgment:--

  _On Native Trees._

  Apple (various sorts)                                         25
  Poplar (mostly the black)                                     20
  Whitethorn                                                    10
  Lime                                                           4
  Maple                                                          3
  Willow                                                         2
  OAK                                                            1

  _On Foreign Trees._

  Sycamore                                                       1
  Robinia                                                        1

From this it would appear that notwithstanding the BRITISH OAK grows
everywhere, it is at present only favoured by the companionship of the
mistletoe in equal ratio with two comparatively recently introduced trees.
Indeed such objection does this parasite manifest to the brave old tree,
even in his teens, that, notwithstanding a newly-planted line of mixed
trees will become speedily attacked by it, the oak is certain to be left in
his pride alone.

I have, however, seen the mistletoe on the oak in two instances during my
much wandering about amid country scenes, especially of Gloucester and
Worcester, two great mistletoe counties. One was pointed out to me by my
friend, Mr. Lees, from whom we may expect much valuable information on this
subject, in his forthcoming edition of the _Botanical Looker-out_--it was
on a young tree, perhaps of fifty years, in Eastnor Park, on the Malvern
chain. The other example is at Frampton-on-Severn, to which the President
of the Cotteswold Naturalists' Club, T. B. L. Baker, Esq., and myself, were
taken by Mr. Clifford, of Frampton. The tree is full a century old, and the
branch, on which was a goodly bunch of the parasite, numbered somewhere
about forty years. That the plant is propagated by seeds there can, I
think, be but little doubt, as the seeds are so admirably adapted for the
peculiar circumstances under which alone they can propagate; and the want
of attention to the facts connected therewith, is probably the cause why
the propagation of the mistletoe by artificial means is usually a failure.

I should be inclined to think that the mistletoe never was abundant on the
oak; so that it may be that additional sanctity was conferred on the
_Viscum guerneum_ on account of its great rarity.

JAMES BUCKMAN.

Cirencester.

_Mistletoe upon Oak_ (Vol. ii., p. 214.).--Besides the mistletoe-bearing
oak mentioned by your correspondent, there is one in Lord Somers' park,
near Malvern. It is a very fine plant, though it has been injured by
sight-seeing marauders.

H. A. B.

Trinity College, Cambridge.

_Mistletoe_ (Vol. ii., pp. 163., 214.).--Do I understand your correspondent
to ask whether mistletoe is found now except on oaks? The answer is, as at
St. Paul's, "Circumspice." Just go into the country a little. The
difficulty is generally supposed to be to find it _on_ the oak.

C. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

UNIVERSALITY OF THE MAXIM, "LAVORA COME SE TU," ETC.

(Vol. iii., p. 188.)

I have not been able to trace this sentence to its source, but it would
most probably be found in that admirable book, _Monosinii Floris Italic√¶
Lingu√¶_, 4to, Venet., 1604; or in Torriano's _Dictionary of Italian
Proverbs and Phrases_, folio, Lond., 1666, a book of which Duplessis doubts
the existence! Most of Jeremy Taylor's citations from the Italian are
proverbial phrases. Your correspondent has probably copied the phrase as it
stands in Bohn's edition of the _Holy Living and Dying_, but there is a
trifling variation as it stands in the first edition of _Holy Living_,
1650:--

 "Lavora come se tu _havesti_ a campar ogni hora:
  Adora come se tu _havesti_ a morir _alhora_."

The universality of this maxim, in ages and countries remote from each
other, is remarkable. Thus we find it in the HITOPAD√âSA:

    "A wise man should think upon knowledge and wealth as if he were
    undecaying and immortal. He should practise duty as if he were seized
    by the hair of his head by Death."--Johnson's _Translation_, Intr. S.

So Democratis of Abdera, more sententiously:

    "[Greek: Houtos peir√¥ z√™n, h√¥s kai oligon kai polun chronon
    bi√¥somenos]."

Then descending to the fifteenth century, we {227} have it thus in the racy
old Saxon _Laine Doctrinal_:

 "Men schal leven, unde darumme sorgen,
  Alse men St√§rven sholde morgen,
  Unde leren √™rnst liken,
  Alse men leven sholde ewigliken."

Where the author of the _Voyage autour de ma Chambre_, Jean Xavier Maitre,
stumbled upon it, or whether it was a spontaneous thought, does not appear;
but in his pleasing little book, _Lettres sur la Vieillesse_, we have it
thus verbatim:

    "Il faut vivre comme si l'on avoit √† mourir demain, mais s'arranger en
    m√™me temps sa vie, autant que cet arrangement peut d√©pendre de notre
    pr√©voyance, comme si l'on avoit devant soi quelques si√®cles, et m√™me
    une √©ternit√© d'existence."

Some of your correspondents may possibly be able to indicate other
repetitions of this truly "golden sentence," which cannot be too often
repeated, for we all know that

 "A verse may reach him who a sermon flies."

S. W. SINGER.

       *       *       *       *       *


Replies to Minor Queries.

_Tennyson's In Memoriam_ (Vol. iii., p. 142.).--

 "Before the crimson-circled star
  Had fallen into her father's grave."

means "before the planet Venus had sunk into the sea."

In Smith's _Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology_, under
the word Aphrodite or Venus, we find that--

    "Some traditions stated that she had sprung from the foam ([Greek:
    aphros]) of the sea which had gathered around the mutilated parts of
    Uranus, that had been thrown into the sea by Kronos, after he had
    unmanned his father."--Hesiod. _Theog._ 190.

The allusion in the first stanza of _In Memoriam_ is, I think, to Shelley.
The doctrine referred to is common to him and many other poets; but he
perhaps inculcates it more frequently than any other. (See _Queen Mab_ sub
finem. _Revolt of Islam_, canto xii. st. 17. _Adonais_, stanzas 39. 41. et
passim.) Besides this, the phrase "clear harp" seems peculiarly applicable
to Shelley, who is remarkable for the simplicity of his language.

X. Z.

_Tennyson's In Memoriam._--The word _star_ applies in poetry to all the
heavenly bodies; and therefore, to the _crescent moon_, which is often near
enough to the sun to be within or to be _encircled_ by, the crimson colour
of the sky about sunset; and the sun may, figuratively, be called _father_
of the moon, because he dispenses to her all the light with which she
shines; and, moreover, because _new_, or waxing moons, must _set_ nearly in
the same point of the horizon as the sun; and because that point of the
horizon in which a heavenly body sets, may, figuratively, be called its
_grave_; therefore, I believe the last two lines of the stanza of the poem
numbered lxxxvii., or 87, in Tennyson's _In Memoriam_, quoted by W. B. H.,
to mean simply--

_We returned home between the hour of sunset and the setting of the moon,
then not so much as a week old._

ROBERT SNOW.

_Bishop Hooper's Godly Confession, &c._ (Vol. iii., p. 169.).--The Rev.
CHARLES NEVINSON may be informed that there are two copies of the edition
of the above work for which he inquires, in the library of Trinity College,
Dublin.

TYRO.

Dublin.

_Machell's MS. Collections for Westmoreland and Cumberland_ (Vol. iii., p.
118.).--In reply to the inquiry of EDWARD F. RIMBAULT, that gentleman may
learn the extent to which the _Machell MS. collections of the Rev. Thomas
Machell, who was chaplain to King Charles II._, have been examined, and
published, by referring, to Burn and Nicholson's _History of Westmoreland
and Cumberland_, edit. 1778. A great part of the MS. is taken up with an
account of the antiquary's own family, the "Mali Catuli," or Machell's
Lords of Crakenthorpe in Westmoreland. the papers in the library of
Carlisle contain only copies and references to the original papers, which
are carefully preserved by the present representatives of the family. There
are above one thousand deeds, charters, and other documents which I have
carefully translated and collated with a view to their being printed
privately for the use of the family, and I shall feel pleasure in replying
to any inquiry on the subject. Address:

G.P. at the Post Office, Barrow upon Humber, Lincolnshire.

Two impressions of the seal of the Abbey of Shapp (anciently Hepp), said
not to be attainable by the editors of the late splendid edition of the
_Monasticon_, are preserved in the Machell MSS.

_Oration against Demosthenes_ (Vol. iii., p. 141.).--For the information of
your correspondent KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE, I transcribe the title of the
oration against Demosthenes, for which he makes inquiry, which was not
"privately printed" as he supposes, but _published_ last year by Mr. J. W.
Parker.

    "The Oration of Hyperides against Demosthenes, respecting the Treasure
    of Harpalus. The Fragments of the Greek Text, now first edited from the
    Fac-simile of the MS. discovered at Egyptian Thebes in 1847; together
    with other Fragments of the same Oration cited in Ancient Writers. With
    a Preliminary Dissertation and Notes, and a Fac-simile of a Portion of
    the MS. By Churchill Babington, M.A. London: J. W. Parker, 1850."

The discovery of the MS. was made by Mr. {228} A. C. Harris of Alexandria,
who placed a fac-simile in the hand of Mr. Churchill Babington, who edited
it as above described.

My information is derived from an article on the work in the _Christian
Remembrancer_ for October, 1850, to which I refer MR. MACKENZIE for further
particulars.

TYRO.

Dublin

    [MR. EDWARD SHEARE JACKSON, B.A., to whom we are indebted for a similar
    reply, adds, "Mr. Harris contributed a paper on the MS. to the Royal
    Society of Literature"]

Mr. Sharpe has also published "Fragments of Orations in Accusation and
Defence of Demosthenes, respecting the money of Harpalus, arranged and
translated," in the _Journal of the Philological Society_, vol. iv.; and
the German scholars Boeckh (in the _Hallische Litteratur-Zeitung_ for 1848)
and Sauppe have also written critical notices on the fragments; but whether
their notices include the old and new fragments, I am unable to say, having
only met with a scanty reference to their learned labours.

J. M.

Oxford.

_Borrow's Danish Ballads_ (Vol. iii., p. 168).--The following is the title
of Mr. Borrow's book, referred to by BRUNO:--

    "Targum; or, Metrical Translations from Thirty Languages and Dialects.
    By George Borrow. 'The Raven ascended to the Nest of the
    Nightingale.'--Persian Poem. St. Petersburgh. Printed by Schulz and
    Beneze. 1835."

R. W. F.

_Borrow's Danish Ballads._--The title of the work is--

    "Romantic Ballads, translated from the Danish, and Miscellaneous
    Pieces; by George Borrow. 8vo. Printed by S. Wilkin, Norwich; and
    published at London by John Taylor, 1826."

In the preface it is stated that the ballads are translated from
Oehlensl√∂ger, and from the _Ki√¶mp√© Viser_, the old Norse book referred to
in _Lavengro_.

[mu].

_Head of the Saviour_ (Vol. iii., p. 168.).--The correspondent who inquires
about the "true likeness" of the Saviour exposed in some of the London
print-shops, is not perhaps aware that there is preserved in the church of
St. Peter's at Rome a much more precious and genuine portrait than the one
to which he alludes--a likeness described by its possessors as "far more
sublime and venerable than any other, since it was neither painted by the
hands of men nor angels, but by the divinity himself who makes both men and
angels." It is not delineated upon wood or canvass, ivory, glass, or
stucco, but upon "a pocket handkerchief lent him by a holy woman named
Veronica, to wipe his face upon at the crucifixion" (Aringhi, _Roma
Subterran._, vol. ii. p. 543.). When the handkerchief was returned it had
this genuine portrait imprinted on its surface. It is now one of the
holiest of relics preserved in the Vatican basilica, where there is
likewise a magnificent altar constructed by Urban VIII., with an
inscription commemorating the fact, a mosaic above, illustrative of the
event, and a statue of the holy female who received the gift, and who is
very properly inscribed in the Roman catalogue of saints under the title of
ST. VERONICA. All this is supported by "pious tradition," and attested by
authorities of equal value to those which establish the identity of St.
Peter's chair. The only difficulty in the matter lies in this, that the
woman Veronica never had any corporeal existence, being no other than the
name by which the picture itself was once designated, viz., the VERA ICON,
or "True Image" (Mabillon, _Iter. Ital._, p. 88.). This narrative will
probably relieve your correspondent from the trouble of further inquiries
by enabling him to judge for himself whether "there is any truth" about the
other true image.

A. R., Jun.

In your 70th Number I perceived that some correspondent asked, "What is the
truth respecting a legend attached to the head of our Saviour for some time
past in the print-shops?" I ask the same question. True or false, I found
in a work entitled _The Antiquarian Repertory_, by Grose, Astle, and
others, vol. iii., an effigy of our Saviour, much inferior in all respects
to the above, with the following attached:--

    "This present figure is the similitude of our Lord [=IHV], oure Saviour
    imprinted in amirvld by the predecessors of the greate turke, and sent
    to the Pope Innosent the 8. at the cost of the greate turke for a token
    for this cawse, to redeme his brother that was taken presonor."

This was painted on board. The Rev. Thomas Thurlow, of Baynard's Park,
Guildford, has another painted on board with a like inscription, to the
best of my recollection: his has a date on it, I think.

Pope Innocent VIII. was created Pope in 1484, and died in 1492.

The variation in the three effigies is an argument against the truth of the
story, or the two on board must have been ill-executed. That in the shops
is very beautiful.

The same gentleman possesses a Bible, printed by Robert Barker, and by the
assignees of John Bill, 1633; and on a slip of paper is, "Holy Bible
curiously bound in tapestry by the nuns of Little Gidding, 12mo., Barker."

In a former Number a person replies that a Bible, bound by the nuns of
Gidding for Charles I., now belongs to the Marquis of Salisbury. Query the
_size of that_?

E. H.

Norwich, March 9.

{229}

_Lady Bingham_ (Vol. iii., p. 61.).--If C. W. B. will refer to the
supplementary volume of Burke's _Landed Gentry_, p. 159, he will see that
Sarah, daughter of John Heigham, of Giffords Hall, co. Suffolk (son of
William Heigham, of Giffords, second son of Clement Heigham, of Giffords,
second son of Thomas Heigham, of Heigham, co. Suffolk) married, first, Sir
Richard Bingham, Knt., of Melcombe Bingham, co. Dorset, governor of
Connaught in 1585, &c.; and secondly, Edward Waldegrave, of Lawford, co.
Essex. This, I presume, is the lady whose maiden name he enquires for.

C. R. M.

_Shakepeare's Use of Captious_ (Vol. ii., p. 354.).--In _All's Well that
Ends Well_, Act I. Sc. 3.:

 "I know I love in vain; strive against hope;
  Yet in this _captious_ and intenible sieve,
  I still pour in the waters of my love,
  And lack not to lose still:"

has not MR. SINGER, and all the other commentators upon this passage,
overlooked a most apparent and satisfactory solution? Is it not evident
that the printer simply omitted the vowel "a," and that the word, as
written by Shakespeare, was "cap_a_tious," the "t," according to the
orthography of the time, being put for the "c" used by modern writers?

With great deference to former critics, I think this emendation is the most
probable, as it accords with the sentiment of Helena, who means to depict
her _vast_ but unretentive sieve, into which she poured the waters of her
love.

W. F. S.

P.S.--I hope MR. SINGER and J. S. W. will tell us what they think of this
proposed alteration.

Bognor, Feb, 22. 1851.

_Tanthony_ (Vol. iii., p. 105.).--I would suggest that the "tanthony" at
Kimbolton is a corruption or mis-pronunciation of "tintany,"
_tintinnabulum_. I have failed to discover any legend of St. Anthony,
confirmatory of ARUN'S suggestion.

A.

Newark, Notts., Feb. 12.

_By the bye_ (Vol. iii., p 73.).--Is your correspondent S. S. not aware
that the phrase "Good bye" is a contraction of our ancestors' more
devotional one of "God be wi' ye!"

D. P. W.

Rotherhithe, Jan. 21. 1851.

_Lama Beads_ (Vol. iii., p. 115.).--It is a pretty bold assertion that Lama
beads are derived from the Lamas of Asia. _Lamma_, according to Jamieson,
is simply the Scotch for _amber_. He says _Lamertyn steen_ means the same
in Teutonic. I do not find it in Wachter's _Lexicon_.

Your correspondent's note is a curious instance of the inconvenience of
half quotation. He says the Lamas are an order of priests among the Western
Tartars. I was surprised at this, since their chief strength, as everybody
knows, is in Thibet. On referring to Rees's _Cyclop√¶dia_, I found that the
words are taken from thence; but they are not wrong there, since, by the
context they have reference to China.

C. B.

_Language given to Men, &c._ (Vol. i., p. 83.).--The saying that language
was given to men to conceal their thoughts is generally fathered upon
Talleyrand at present. I did not know it was in Goldsmith; but the real
author of it was Fontenelle.

C. B.

_Daresbury, the White Chapel of England_ (Vol. iii., p. 60.).--This
_jeu-d'esprit_ was an after-dinner joke of a learned civilian, not less
celebrated for his wit than his book-lore. Some stupid blockhead inserted
it in the newspapers, and it is now unfortunately chronicled in your
valuable work. It is not at all to be wondered at that "the people in the
neighbourhood know nothing on the subject."

ECHO.

_Holland Land_ (Vol. ii., pp. 267. 345.; Vol. iii., pp. 30. 70.).--Were not
the Lincolnshire estates of Count Bentinck, a Dutch nobleman who came over
with William III., and the ancestor of the late Lord George Bentinck, M.P.
for Lynn Regis, denominated _Little Holland_, which he increased by
reclaiming large portions in the Dutch manner from the Wash?

E. S. TAYLOR.

_Passage in the Tempest_ (Vol. ii., p. 259, &c.).--I do not profess to
offer an opinion as to the right reading; but with reference to the
suggestion of A. E. B. (p. 338.) that it means--

 "Most busy when least I do it,"

or--

 "Most busy when least employed,"

allow me to refer you to the splendid passage in the _De Officiis_, lib.
iii. cap. i., where Cicero expresses the same idea:--

    "Pub. Scipionem,... eum, qui primus Africanus appellatus sit, dicere
    solitum scripsit Cato,... _Nunquam se minus otiosum esse, quam cum
    otiosus_; nec minus solum, quam cum solus esset. Magnifica vero vox, et
    magno viro, ac sapiente digna; qu√¶ declarat, illum et in otio de
    negotiis cogitare, et in solitudine secum loqui solitum: ut neque
    cessaret unquam, et interdum colloquio alterius non egeret."

ACHE.

_Damasked Linen_ (Vol. iii., p. 13.).--I believe it has always been
customary to damask the linen used by our royal family with appropriate
devices. I have seen a cloth of Queen Anne's, with the "A. R." in double
cypher, surrounded by buds and flowers; and have myself a cloth with a view
of London, and inscribed "Der Konig Georg II.," which was purchased at
Brentford, no doubt having come from Kew adjoining.

H. W. D.

_Straw Necklaces_ (Vol. ii., p. 511.).--Having only lately read the "NOTES
AND QUERIES" (in fact, this being the first number subscribed for), I do
not know the previous allusion. It makes me mention a curious custom at
Carlisle, of the {230} servants who wish to be hired going into the
marketplace of Carlisle, or as they call it "Carel," with a straw in their
mouths. It is fast passing away, and _now_, instead of keeping the straw
constantly in the mouth, they merely put it in a few seconds if they see
any one looking at them. Anderson, in his _Cumberland Ballads_, alludes to
the custom:--

 "At Carel I stuid wi' a strae i' my mouth,
  The weyves com roun me in clusters:
 'What weage dus te ax, canny lad?' says yen."

H. W. D.

_Library of the Church of Westminster_ (Vol. iii., p. 152.).--The statement
here quoted from the _D√©lices de la Grande Bretagne_ is scarcely likely to
be correct. We all know how prone foreigners are to misapprehension, and
therefore, how unsafe it is to trust to their observations. In this case,
may not the description of the _Biblioth√®que Publique_, which was open
night and morning, during the sittings of the courts of justice, have
originated merely from the rows of booksellers' stalls in Westminster-hall?

J. G. N.

_The Ten Commandments_ (Vol. iii., p. 166.).--Waterland (vol. vi. p. 242.,
2nd edition, Oxford, 1843) gives a copy of the Decalogue taken from an old
MS. In this the first two commandments are embodied in one. Leighton, in
his _Exposition of the Ten Commandments_, when speaking on the point of the
manner of dividing them, refers in a vague manner to Josephus and Philo.

R. V.

_Sitting crosslegged to avert Evil_ (Vol. ii.,p. 407.).--Browne says:--

    "To set crosselegg'd, or with our fingers pectinated or shut together,
    is accounted bad, and friends will perswade us from it. The same
    conceit religiously possessed the ancients, as is observable from
    Pliny: 'Poplites alternis genibus imponere nefas olim;' and also from
    Athen√¶us, that it was an old veneficious practice."--_Vulg. Err._, lib.
    v. cap. xxi. ¬ß 9.

ACHE.

_George Steevens_ (Vol. iii., p. 119.).--A. Z. wishes to know whether a
memoir of George Steevens, the Shakspearian commentator, was ever
published, and what has become of the manuscripts.

I believe the late Sir James Allen Park wrote his life, but whether for
public or private circulation I cannot tell.

The late George Steevens had a relative, a Mrs. Collinson, and daughters
who lived with him at Hampstead, and with him when he died, in Jan. 1800.
Miss Collinson married a Mr. Pyecroft, whose death, I think, is in the
_Gentleman's Magazine_ for this month: perhaps the Pyecroft family may give
information respecting the manuscripts.

    "The house he lived in at Hampstead, called the Upper Flask, was
    formerly a place of public entertainment near the summit of Hampstead
    Hill. Here Richardson sends his Clarissa in one of her escapes from
    Lovelace. Here, too, the celebrated Kit-Cat Club used to meet in the
    summer months; and here, after it became a private abode, the no less
    celebrated George Steevens lived and died."--Vide Park's _Hampstead_,
    pp. 250. 352.

I just recollect Mr. Steevens, who was very kind to us, as children. My
mother, who is an octogenarian, remembers him well, and says he always took
a nosegay, tied to the top of his cane, every day to Sir Joseph Banks.

JULIA R. BOCKETT.

Southcote Lodge, near Reading.

_The Waistcoat bursted, &c._ (Vol. ii., p. 505.).--The general effect of
melancholy: digestion is imperfectly performed, and melancholy patients
generally complain of being "blown up." BODVAR'S "blowing up," on the
contrary, is the mere effect of the generation of gases in a dead body,
well illustrated by a floating dead dog on the river side, or the bursting
of a leaden coffin.

H. W. D.

_Love's Labour's Lost_ (Vol. iii., p. 163.).--Your correspondent has very
neatly and ably made out how the names of the ladies ought to have been
placed; but the error is the poet's, not the printer's. It is impossible to
conceive how, in printing or transcribing, such a mistake should arise; the
names are quite unlike, and several lines distant from one another. Such
forgetfulness is not very uncommon in poets, especially those of the
quickest and liveliest spirit. It is the old mistake of Bentley and other
commentators, to think that whatever is wrong must be spurious. These, too,
we must recollect, are fictitious characters.

C. W. B.

       *       *       *       *       *


Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

Agreeing with Mr. Lower, that they who desire to know the truth as to the
earlier periods of our national history, will do wisely to search for it
among the mists and shadows of antiquity, and rather collect it for
themselves out of the monkish chronicles than accept the statements of
popular historiographers, we receive with great satisfaction the addition
to our present list of translations of such chronicles, which Mr. Lower has
given us in _The Chronicle of Battel Abbey from 1066 to 1176, now first
translated, with Notes, and an Abstract of the subsequent History of the
Establishment_. The original Chronicle, which is preserved among the
Cottonian MSS., though known to antiquaries and historians, was never
committed to the press until the year 1846, when it was printed by the
_Anglia Christiana Society_ from a transcript made by the late Mr. Petrie.
Mr. Lower's translation has been made from that edition; and though
undertaken by him as an illustration of local history, will be found well
deserving the perusal of the general reader, not only from the light it
throws upon the Norman invasion and upon the {231} history of the abbey
founded by the Conqueror in fulfilment of his vow, but also for the
pictures it exhibits of the state of society during the period which it
embraces.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--_The Embarrassment of the Clergy in the Matter of Church
Discipline._ Two ably written letters by Presbyter Anglicanus, reprinted,
by request, from the _Morning Post_;--_Ann Ash, or the Foundling_, by the
_Author of 'Charlie Burton' and 'The Broken Arm.'_ If not quite equal to
_Charlie Burton_, and there are few children's stories which are so, it is
a tale well calculated to sustain the writer's well-deserved
reputation;--_Burns and his Biographers, being a Caveat to Cavillers, or an
Earnest Endeavour to clear the Cant and Calumnies which, for half a
Century, have clung, like Cobwebs, round the Tomb of Robert Burns._

Messrs. Sotheby and Wilkinson, of 93. Wellington Street, Strand, will sell
on Monday next, and five following days, the valuable Library of the late
Mr. Andrews of Bristol, containing, besides a large collection of works of
high character and repute, some valuable Historical, Antiquarian, and
Heraldic Manuscripts.

CATALOGUES RECEIVED.--John Gray Bell's (17. Bedford Street, Covent Garden)
Catalogue of Autograph Letters and other Documents; John Alex. Wilson's
(20. Upper Kirkgate, Aberdeen) Catalogue of Cheap Books, many Rare and
Curious; E. Stibbs' (331. Strand) Catalogue Part III. of Books in all
Languages.

       *       *       *       *       *


BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

MADAME D'AULNOY'S FAIRY TALES, a small old folio. At the end of the Edition
sought for, there are some Spanish Romances: it is in one vol.

RURAL WALKS--RAMBLES FARTHER, by Charlotte Smith. A Child's Book in 4 Vols.
(of the last Century).

[_However ragged and worn the above may be, it does not signify._]

Any Rare or Valuable Works relating in any way to FREE MASONRY.

BARONII ANNALES ECCLES. CUM CENT. O. RAYNALDI ET LAUTERBACHII. 25 Volumes.

L'ABB√â ANNALES DE SAINT PIERRE, PROJET DE PAIX PERPETUELLE, 3 Vols. 12mo.
Utrecht, 1713.

CHEVALIER RAMSAY, ESSAI DE POLITIQUE, o√π l'on traite de la N√©cessit√©, de
l'Origine, des Droits, des Bornes, et des Diff√©rentes Formes de la
Souverainet√©, selon les Principes de l'Auteur de "T√©l√©maque." 2 Vols. 12mo.
La Haye, without date, but printed in 1719.

The same, Second Edition, under the title of ESSAI PHILOSOPHIQUE SUR LE
GOUVERNEMENT CIVIL, SELON LES PRINCEPS DE F√âNELON. 12mo. Londres, 1721.

BIBLIA HEBRAICA, cum locc. pavall. et adnott. J. H Michaelis. Hal√¶ Magd.
1720. Quarto preferred.

*** Letters stating particulars and lowest price, _carriage free_, to be
sent to MR. BELL, Publisher of "NOTES AND QUERIES," 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


Notices to Correspondents.

_We are this week compelled by want of room to postpone many interesting
papers, among which we may mention one by_ LORD BRAYBROOKE _on_ Portraits
of Distinguished Englishmen, _and one by_ SIR F. MADDEN _on the_ Collection
of Pictures of Bart. del Nave purchased by Charles I. _Our next Number will
be enlarged to 24 pages, so as to include these and many other valuable
communications, which are now waiting for insertion._

LUCIUS QUESTORIUS. _It is obvious that we have no means of explaining the
discrepancy to which our correspondent refers. If we rightly understand his
question, it is one which the publisher alone can answer._

ENQUIRER (Milford). _The copy of_ Hudibras _described is worth from fifteen
to twenty shillings._

W. H. G. _A coin of Aphrodisia in Caria. Has our correspondent consulted
Mr. Akerman's_ Numismatic Manual?

J. N. G. G. _Anania, Azaria, and Mizael, occurring in the_ Benedicite, _are
the Hebrew names of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. See_ Daniel, i. 7.

LAUDATOR TEMPORIS ACTI. _Will our correspondent who wrote to us under this
signature enable us to address a communication to him?_

HERMES _is assured that the proposal for "showing the world that there is
something worth living for beyond external luxury" is only postponed
because it jumps completely with a plan which is now under consideration,
and which it may in due time help forward._

REPLIES RECEIVED.--_Lines on Woman--Meaning of Strained--Mounds or
Munts--Rococo Sea--Headings of Chapters in English Bibles--Predeceased and
Designed--Christmas Day--Ulm MS.--Bede MS.--Booty's Case--Good bye--Almond
Tree--Snail-eating--Swearing by Swans--Rev. W. Adams--Engraved
Portraits--Laus Tua--Nettle in--Portraits of Bishops--Passage in
Gray--Oliver Cromwell--Fifth Sons--Lady Jane of Westmoreland--The Volpe
Family--Ten Children at a Birth--Edmund Prideaux and the first
Post-office--Dr. Thomlinson--Drax Free School--Mistletoe--Standfast's
Cordial Comfort._

VOLS. I. _and_ II., _each with very copious Index, may still be had, price
9s. 6d. each._

NOTES AND QUERIES _may be procured, by order, of all Booksellers and
Newsvenders. It is published at noon on Friday so that our country
Subscribers ought not to experience any difficulty in procuring it
regularly. Many of the country Booksellers, &c., are, probably, not yet
aware of this arrangement, which will enable them to receive_ NOTES AND
QUERIES _in their Saturday parcels._

_All communications for the Editor of_ NOTES AND QUERIES _should be
addressed to the care of_ MR. BELL, No. 186. Fleet Street.

_Errata._--No. 65., p. 68., col. 2, l. 14., should be--

 "How canst thou _thus_ be useful to the sight."

No. 70., p. 169., col. 2., 1. 43., for "O_p_oriensis" read "O_ss_oriensis;"
and line 45., for "Oss_e_ry" read "Oss_o_ry." No. 72., p. 213., col. 2., l.
17., for "authority" read "authorship."

       *       *       *       *       *


IN ANTICIPATION OF EASTER.

THE SUBSCRIBER has prepared an ample supply of his well-known and approved
SURPLICES, from 20s. to 50s., and various devices in DAMASK COMMUNION
LINEN, well adapted for presentation to Churches.

Illustrated priced Catalogues sent free to the Clergy, Architects, and
Church wardens by post, on application to

GILBERT J. FRENCH, Bolton, Lancashire.

       *       *       *       *       *


Just published,

H. RODD'S CATALOGUE, Part II. 1851, containing many Curious and Valuable
Books in all Languages, some rare Old Poetry, Plays, Shakspeariana, &c.
Gratis, per post, Four Stamps.

23. Little Newport Street, Leicester Square.

       *       *       *       *       *


Fourth Edition, price 3d.

THE CANTICLES IN THE PRAYER-BOOK, with the GREGORIAN TONES adapted to them:
as also the 114th and 115th Psalms, and the CREED OF ST. ATHANASIUS.

Price 2s.

THE PSALTER, with the GREGORIAN TONES adapted to the several Psalms.

Price 6d.

HARMONIZED GREGORIAN TONES (For "THE PSALTER," &c. W. B. H.)

JOHN HENRY PARKER, Oxford and London.

       *       *       *       *       *


Second Edition, price 3s.

A COLLECTION OF ANTHEMS used in a Cathedral and Collegiate Churches of
England and Ireland. By WILLIAM MARSHALL, Mus. Doc. The Appendix separate,
price 1s.

JOHN HENRY PARKER, Oxford and London.

{232}

       *       *       *       *       *


Just published, in foolscap 8vo., price 5s. cloth, lettered.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

of the

REV. WILLIAM WALFORD,

LATE CLASSICAL AND HEBREW TUTOR IN THE COLLEGE AT HOMERTON.

Edited (with a Continuation) by JOHN STOUGHTON.

London: JACKSON AND WALFORD, 18. St. Paul's Churchyard.

       *       *       *       *       *


WORKS BY MR. HEPWORTH DIXON.

Illustrated, in foolscap 8vo. price 6s. cloth,

A THIRD EDITION of JOHN HOWARD and the PRISON-WORLD of EUROPE.

Also, in foolscap 8vo., price 6s. cloth,

THE LONDON PRISONS; with an Account of the more Distinguished Persons who
have been confined in them.

London: JACKSON AND WALFORD, 18. St. Paul's Churchyard.

       *       *       *       *       *


Third Edition published this Day. In post 8vo., with numerous
Illustrations, price 8s. bound in cloth, or 17s. morocco antique,

NINEVEH AND PERSEPOLIS: An Historical Sketch of Ancient Assyria and Persia.
With an Account of the Recent Researches in those Countries. By W. S. W.
VAUX. M.A., of the British Museum.

*** This Edition has been through revised and enlarged, and several New
Illustrations introduced, from recent additions to the collection in the
British Museum.

ARTHUR HALL, VIRTUE, and CO., 25. Paternoster Row.

       *       *       *       *       *


LITERARY AGENCY.--MR. F. G. TOMLINS (Secretary to the Shakespeare Society;
Author of a Brief View of the English Drama: a Variorum History of England;
Garcia, a Tragedy; the Topic, the Self Educator, &c. &c.) is desirous to
make it known that a Twenty Years' experience with the Press and
Literature, as Author and Publisher, enables him to give advice and
information to Authors, Publishers, and Persons wishing to communicate with
the Public, either as to the Editing, Advertising, or Authorship of Books,
Pamphlets, or Literary productions of any kind. Opinions obtained on
Manuscripts previous to publication, and Works edited, written, or
supervised for the Press by acknowledged writers in their various
departments.

OFFICE, 19. SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND;

where works of reference for Literary Purposes may be obtained or referred
to.

       *       *       *       *       *


Published this day, in one handsome volume 8vo., with Illustrations, price
9s. in cloth.

THE CHRONICLE OF BATTEL ABBEY, in SUSSEX, originally compiled in Latin by a
Monk of the Establishment, and now first translated, with Notes and an
Abstract of the subsequent History of the Abbey. By MARK ANTONY LOWER, M.A.

MR. LOWER'S OTHER PUBLICATIONS.

ESSAYS ON ENGLISH SURNAMES. The Third Edition, in 2 vols. post. 8vo., cloth
12s.

CURIOSITIES OF HERALDRY, with numerous Engravings, 8vo., cloth. 14s.

J. RUSSELL SMITH, 4. Old Compton Street, Soho, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


Just published, Gratis, or sent per Post, on Receipt of Four Stamps,

A CATALOGUE OF AUTOGRAPH LETTERS, FRANKS, AND OTHER DOCUMENTS on Sale by
JOHN GRAY BELL, 17. Bedford Street, Covent Garden.

       *       *       *       *       *


Just published, in 400 very large and full pages, Demy 8vo.,

Containing matter equal in quantity to 1,500 pages of an ordinary volume
8vo. Price only 4s., or postage free, 5s., strongly and neatly bound in
cloth,

GILBERT'S COPIOUS SERIES OF PAMPHLETS on the ROMAN CATHOLIC QUESTION;
containing Important Documents of Permanent Historical Interest having
Reference to the Re-establishment of the CATHOLIC HIERARCHY IN ENGLAND,
1850-1.

The Editor of these Pamphlets deems it almost superfluous to dwell on the
paramount importance of every respectable family possessing this volume of
very special present and permanent interest. During the discussion of the
exciting matters now at issue in this all-absorbing question, there can be
no questioning the well-recognised fact that the possession of this copious
and cheap volume is essential to every thoughtful and inquiring person in
our beloved country. To enable those who are as yet unaware of the immense
mass of interesting and important documents there are in its pages, AN
INDEX OF ITS CONTENTS IS ISSUED FOR GRATUITOUS DISTRIBUTION--this will
abundantly testify to the fact; and the Editor, in conclusion, thinks it
only necessary to state that, with scarcely an exception, the whole of the
documents are printed, verbatim, as they originally appeared, and in very
numerous cases they have had the additional advantage of the direct and
special revision of the authors.

The Editor deems it necessary to state his conviction that all the
important facts and documents relative to the "Roman Catholic Question"
have appeared in the pages of these Pamphlets. Doubtless, during the
progress of the Ecclesiastical Titles Assumption Bill through the houses of
parliament many speeches of interest will be made; still the Editor thinks
they will, to a considerable extent, be merely elaborations of the
materials already in these pages, devoid of original facts or documents.
Should, however, on the conclusion of the debates, the Editor's opinions
undergo a change, he will issue the results in the form of an Appendix to
the present volume.

*** Any persons who may wish to possess the Series or sheet containing any
specific article particularised in the Index, will be at liberty to
purchase it separately, on One Penny or Three-half-pence each sheet
respectively, or at one penny each extra post-free, through the Publisher.
Series 1 to 17 sell at 1d., and 18 to 25 at 1¬Ωd. each, but it must be
observed that each sheet or Series contains several documents.

Published by JAMES GILBERT, 49. Paternoster Row, London.

Agent for Scotland, J. MENZIES, Bookseller, Edinborough: for Ireland, J.
M^CGLASHAN, Bookseller, Dublin.

_Or Orders may be given to any Bookseller, Station, &c._

       *       *       *       *       *


Just published, price 12s., fool-cap 8vo.

THE HOMOEOPATHIC HAND-BOOK and CLINICAL GUIDE for the TREATMENT of
DISEASES: a Complete Pocket-book of Homoeopathic Therapeutics for Domestic
Use, as well as for Medical Practitioners. By Dr. G. H. G. JAHR. Translated
from the German by D. SPILLAN, A.M., M.D. This is a new, full, and complete
translation from the original, with a copious Glossary and Index. It is
excellently adapted for reference in domestic practice, as well as to
assist the practitioner.

London: WILLIAM HEADLAND, 15. Princes-street, Hanover-square.

       *       *       *       *       *


THE WATER CURE.

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF HYDROPATHY, along with the POPULAR TREATMENT
of MEASLES, SMALL-POX, and other Diseases. By DR. MACLEOD, F.R.C.P.E.,
Physician to the celebrated Wharfedale Hydropathic Establishment, Ben
Rhydding, Otley, Yorkshire. Price 3s.

Manchester: Printed and Published by WM. IRWIN, 53. Oldham Street. London:
Published by SIMPKIN, MARSHALL and CO., and CHARLES GILPIN.

       *       *       *       *       *


Printed by THOMAS CLARK SHAW, of No. 8. New Street Square, at No. 5. New
Street Square, in the parish of St. Bride, in the City of London; and
published by GEORGE BELL, of No. 186. Fleet Street, in the Parish of St.
Dunstan in the West, in the City of London, Publisher, at No. 186. Fleet
Street aforesaid.--Saturday, March 22. 1851.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Notes and Queries, Number 73, March
22, 1851, by Various

